docs(CU-86968vje3): add ignored run trigger section (#651)
spacelift-io/user-documentation: docs/concepts/run/ignored-triggers.md

# Ignored run triggers

{% if is_saas() %}

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Also I think will be nice to see all types of ignored runs.

Author: I changed the sentence in this section for a bullet list with all different cases.

> The capability to see ignored run requires at least an active [Starter+ tier](https://spacelift.io/pricing){: rel="nofollow"} subscription.

Reviewer 2: Can you use an info bubble for consistency like we do in other places? For example here's the worker pools page: https://github.com/spacelift-io/user-documentation/blob/c44368c02675c3420dcc81bfe7e268819efde21c/docs/concepts/worker-pools/README.md?plain=1#L9.

The other aspect is that using a header like this also groups the `This feature will help you to identify...` text into the "Prerequisites" section, which isn't quite right.

{% endif %}

> This feature will help you to identify why a run has not been triggered when a commit is pushed to your repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ignored run triggers help you identify why a run has not been triggered when a commit is pushed to your repository.
```

For example, if you have made changes outside of the project root, or if you have attached a custom push policy to the stack that is ignoring commits for some reason.

!!! info

>     We are currently only showing ignored run for VCS push that happened on the tracked branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    We are currently only showing ignored runs for commits pushed to stack tracked branches.
```

## Tracked runs tab

> If you go to the main stack view where you can see the list of run, a warning box will be shown in case your stack is not in sync. This warning will explain why the commit has been ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you go to the main stack view where you can see the list of runs, a warning box will be shown in case your stack is not in sync. This warning will explain why the commit has been ignored.
```

![](../../assets/screenshots/run/ignored-triggers.png)

> The warning will automatically disappear if you push another commit that will trigger a run. You can also dismiss this warning box, and click on the checkbox to don't show this kind of information again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The warning will automatically disappear if you push another commit that triggers a run. You can also dismiss this warning box, and click on the checkbox to not show ignored run warnings again.
```

Reviewer: it's nice to have a native speaker 😄

Author: Yeah, that is amazing. 
I just feel bad every single time I ask Adam to correct my terrible grammar, it shows me how bad it is 😆

Reviewer 2: It's really not at all. And don't worry about it, I enjoy editing anyway 😄

> In case you want to enable it, you can find a toggle in your personal settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case you want to re-enable it, you can find a toggle in your personal settings.
```

I'm not 100% sure on this one - I changed it to `re-enable` instead of `enable` because I'm assuming it connects to the point about being able to disable the warnings via the "Don't show again" checkbox.

Author: Makes sense, you got it right 🙇🏻

![](../../assets/screenshots/run/ignored-triggers-settings.png)

## Ignored runs tab

> If you want to go back in time and try understand why a run has not been triggered, you can open the Ignored runs tab and go back in time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to go back in time and try to understand why a run has not been triggered, you can open the Ignored runs tab.
```

# Ignored run triggers

{% if is_saas() %}

!!! info

>     The capability to see ignored run requires at least an active [Starter+ tier](https://spacelift.io/pricing){: rel="nofollow"} subscription.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The capability to see ignored runs requires at least an active [Starter+ tier](https://spacelift.io/pricing){: rel="nofollow"} subscription.
```

{% endif %}

Ignored run triggers will help you identify why a run has not been triggered when a commit is pushed to your repository.

A run can be ignored because of the following reasons:

- a change has been made outside of the project root.
- a tag is pushed.

> - the default push policy is disabled, and not custom push policies are attached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- the default push policy is disabled, and no custom push policies are attached.
```

> - the default push policy is disabled, and not custom push policies are attached.

Reviewer 2: We could link to the section about it in the push policy docs: https://docs.spacelift.io/concepts/policy/push-policy#default-git-push-policy.

> - the default push policy is disabled, and not custom push policies are attached.

Author: I guess it's missing, it should be there IMO https://docs.spacelift.io/concepts/stack/stack-settings.html#labels

Maybe it is not documented on purpose 🤔

> - the default push policy is disabled, and not custom push policies are attached.

Reviewer 2: Oh - ignore me. I forgot there was another point about custom push policies. Although maybe the section about the default push policy should explain the label?

- one or many custom push policies were applied and dismissed the commit.

> !!! info

Reviewer 2: This is a super nit, but I wonder if we should change this from a callout to a "Limitations" section or something like that. The reason I say that is that now we have the callout for the tier restriction, we have two callouts in the same section which looks a little odd:

<img width="803" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4500a48c-09dd-4196-a671-4b87a1006ebe">

    We are currently only showing ignored runs for commits pushed to stack tracked branches.

## Tracked runs tab

If you go to the main stack view where you can see the list of runs, a warning box will be shown in case your stack is not in sync. This warning will explain why the commit has been ignored.

![](../../assets/screenshots/run/ignored-triggers.png)

The warning will automatically disappear if you push another commit that triggers a run. You can also dismiss this warning box, and click on the checkbox to not show ignored run warnings again.

In case you want to re-enable it, you can find a toggle in your personal settings.

![](../../assets/screenshots/run/ignored-triggers-settings.png)

## Ignored runs tab

If you want to go back in time and try to understand why a run has not been triggered, you can open the Ignored runs tab.

!!! info

>     The retention period for those ignored runs is currently of **7 days**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The retention period for those ignored runs is currently **7 days**.
```
